
---
layout: post
title:  Translating the provided string to pig latin
date: 2017-11-02
---

### Translating the provided string to pig latin.
This  was challenging because i spent much onit trying to understand the problem and  trying to think  like how am i going to solve it.

### Problem:

Create a function that wil translate pig latin, If  words is consonant move it to the end of the word and suffixes an "ay". also, If a word

begins with a vowel you just add "way" to the end.

### my aPProach
In a given function i decided to have two variables for vowels and  consonant so that i will be able compare them.  I used str.match(vowels) to test whether my function will execute good results but it was returning unwanted results. So  decided to change my test statement like instead of str.match(vowels) i used vowels.includes(str) to check whether  an array  includes a certain  elements and if yes should return str by  adding vocalic syllable, and cosonant.includes(str) to check whether  an array  includes a certain  consonant_cluster if yes should return str.substr(2) to remove a the character and return new string and i added str.substring(0,2) to cut the first  word and put it to the end of word  adding vocalic syllable.  It was working and returning an accurate results.


### Problem stated:
When i consoled consonant_cluster it was suppose to slice the first and the second word and add the first word at the end of word but it sliced the first word only.


I decided  to understand the problem and  and  think on how am i going to  to solve it and i breaked it into pieces, and when something was not working as thought, I stoped and  think on another solution.




