---
layout: post
title: subscribe(listener)
date: 2018-06-05
---

subscribe(listener)​

Adds a change listener. It will be called any time an action is dispatched, and some part of the state tree may potentially have changed. You may then call getState() to read the current state tree inside the callback.

You may call dispatch() from a change listener, with the following caveats:

The listener should only call dispatch() either in response to user actions or under specific conditions (e. g. dispatching an action when the store has a specific field). Calling dispatch() without any conditions is technically possible, however it leads to an infinite loop as every dispatch() call usually triggers the listener again. The subscriptions are snapshotted just before every dispatch() call. If you subscribe or unsubscribe while the listeners are being invoked, this will not have any effect on the dispatch() that is currently in progress. However, the next dispatch() call, whether nested or not, will use a more recent snapshot of the subscription list. i The listener should not expect to see all state changes, as the state might have been updated multiple times during a nested dispatch() before the listener is called. It is, however, guaranteed that all subscribers registered before the dispatch() started will be called with the latest state by the time it exits.
It is a low-level API. Most likely, instead of using it directly, you'll use React (or other) bindings. If you commonly use the callback as a hook to react to state changes, you might want to write a custom observeStore utility. The Store is also an Observable, so you can subscribe to changes with libraries like RxJS.
