
---
layout: post
title: Respect
date: 2018-02-07
---

### Respect

Is a positive feeling or action shown towars someone or something considered important, or held in high esteem or requard it conveys a sense of admiration for good or valuable vable qualities; and it is also the process of honoring someone by exhibiting care, concern, or considerstion for their needs or feelings.


### Ways of respect

Listen:

I know it sounds easy, but listening–truly listening–can be one of the hardest skills to master. If you want a person to know you respect him or her, then tune into what that person is saying.  Look them in the eye, put down your cell phone, and offer feedback when necessary.  Everyone appreciates the person who willing listens to them and shows genuine interest in what they have to say.


Encourage:

If you’ve ever had a bad day, then you know the power a little encouragement can have. We’ve all had moments when we need someone to tell us, “don’t worry, things will work out.” It might not seem like much at the time, but that person will remember that you took the time and interest in their feelings and well-being. A smile and uplifting word can truly brighten someone’s day.

Congratulate:

If someone does a great job, let them know about it. In fact, let everyone know about it. Openly congratulate someone for a job well done, especially if you’re a manager.  Employees will work harder and happier knowing their manager has a mutual respect for them and is willing to express praise and gratitude when it’s deserved.

Say Thank You:

I’m sure this one seems like common sense, but many people just forget to say thank you or at least forget how to say it with sincerity. A thank you can be as small as two words or as much as buying someone a gift; nevertheless, if the action is not done with 100% sincerity then it is wasted.  Make sure people know you appreciate them and their actions.  Simply saying it in front of someone else can make a big impact.


Respect other p[eople's feelings, evej it it does not mean anything to you, it couldmean everything to htem.Probasbly no greater honor can come than the respect of hois colleques.


