---
layout: post
title: State
date: 2018-04-25
---

### How State Works

A common way to inform React to a data change is by calling setState(data, callback). This method merges data into this.state and re-renders the component. When the component finishes re-rendering, the optional callback is called. Most of the time you'll never need to provide a callback since React will take care of keeping your UI up-to-date for you.
What Components Should Have State?

A common pattern is to create several stateless components that just render data, and have a stateful component above them in the hierarchy that passes its state to its children via props. The stateful component encapsulates all of the interaction logic, while the stateless components take care of rendering data in a declarative way.

### What Should Go in State?

The state should contain data that a component's event handlers may change to trigger a UI update. In real apps, this data tends to be very small and JSON-serializable. When building a stateful component, think about the minimal possible representation of its state, and only store those properties in this.state. Inside of render() simply compute any other information you need based on this state. You'll find that thinking about and writing applications in this way tend to lead to the correct application, since adding redundant or computed values to state means that you need to explicitly keep them in sync rather than rely on React computing them for you.

### What Shouldn't Go in State?

this.state should only contain the minimal amount of data needed to represent your UI's state. As such, it should not contain:

 Computed data: Don't worry about precomputing values based on state — it's easier to ensure that your UI is consistent if you do all computation within render(). For example, if you have an array of list items in state and you want to render the count as a string, simply render this.state. listItems.length + ' list items' in your render() method rather than storing it on the state.

React components: Build them in render() based on underlying props and state. Duplicated data from props: Try to use props as the source of truth where possible. One valid use to store props in the state is to be able to know its previous values, because props may change as the result of a parent component re-rendering.

