
---
layout: post
title: Thinking
date: 2019-02-28
---

### Thinking

Thinking is a way of exploring an infinite number of solutions to find one that is effective. So, instead of starting off with a set number of possibilities and converging on an answer, it goes as far and wide as necessary and moves outwards in search of the solution.


### Different types of thinking


### Abstract

Abstract thinkers are able to relate seemingly random things with each other. This is because they can see the bigger picture. They make the connections that others find difficult to see. They have the ability to look beyond what is obvious and search for hidden meanings. They can read between the lines and enjoy solving cryptic puzzles. They don’t like routine and get bored easily.

### Analytical

Analytical thinkers like to separate a whole into its basic parts in order to examine these parts and their relationships. They are great problem-solvers and have a structured and methodical way of approaching tasks. This type of thinker will seek answers and use logic rather than emotional thinking in life. However, they have a tendency to overthink things and can ruminate on the same subject for months.

### Creative

Creative thinkers think outside the box and will come up with ingenious solutions to solve their dilemmas in life. They like to break away from the traditions and norms of society when it comes to new ideas and ways of thinking. They can sometimes be ridiculed as society prefers to keep the status quo. Creative thinkers can also court jealously if they manage to follow their dreams and work in a creative field.

### Concrete thinking

Concrete thinking focuses on the physical world, rather than the abstract one. It is all about thinking of objects or ideas as specific items, rather than as a theoretical representation of a more general idea. Concrete thinkers like hard facts, figures and statistics. For example, you will not get any philosophers who think in concrete terms. Children think in concrete terms as it is a very basic and literal form of understanding.

### Critical thinking

Critical thinking takes analytical thinking up a level. Critical thinkers exercise careful evaluation or judgment in order to determine the authenticity, accuracy, worth, validity, or value of something.  And rather than strictly breaking down the information, critical thinking explores other elements that could have an influence on conclusions.

### Convergent thinking

Convergent thinking is a process of combining a finite number of perspectives or ideas to find a single solution. Convergent thinkers will target these possibilities, or converge them inwards, to come up with a solution. One example is a multiple choice question in an exam. You have four possible answers but only one is right. In order to solve the problem, you would use convergent thinking.
Divergent thinking


